AI-NIC documentation (#3383)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/rocprofiler-systems/docs/how-to/nic-profiling.rst

`ROCm Systems Profiler <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-systems/tree/develop/projects/rocprofiler-systems>`_ supports network profiling.

There are two kinds of network performance profiling:

> * Profiling using PAPI events

Reviewer: Network performance profiling can be performed using two methods:

- Event-based profiling via PAPI counters
- AI NIC metric collection using amd-smi

PAPI-Based Profiling
----------------------------

Reviewer 2: Done.

* AI NIC metric collection using amd-smi

> We first describe profiling via PAPI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Event-based profiling via PAPI counters
```

.. image:: ../data/rocprof-sys-perfetto-nic-trace.png
   :alt: Visualization of a performance graph in Perfetto with network tracks
   :width: 800

AI NIC profiling
================

On a host that has AI network interface cards, ROCm Systems Profiler can track
the following values:

* RX Congestion Notification Packets
* TX Congestion Notification Packets
* RX unicast bytes
* TX unicast bytes
* RX unicast packets
* TX unicast packets

Building ROCm Systems Profiler with AI NIC support enabled
----------------------------------------------------------

> By default, AI NIC support is disabled. You can enable it by setting

Reviewer: @ajanicijamd We need to change this line. The feature is now built by default.

Reviewer 2: Done

.. code-block:: shell

   $ sudo amd-smi list
   AI_NIC: 0
       BDF: 0000:e2:00.0
       PERMANENT_ADDRESS: 04:90:81:2c:77:b0
       PRODUCT_NAME: POLLARA 1x400G QSFP112
       PART_NUMBER: POLLARA-1Q400P
       SERIAL_NUMBER: FPL250300A1EC0V2
       VENDOR_NAME: AMD Pensando Systems, Inc.

Get the name of each available AI NIC by executing ``amd-smi static``:

.. code-block:: shell

   $ sudo amd-smi static
   AI_NIC: 0
       NIC:
   ...
           RDMA_DEVICES:
               RDMA_DEVICE_0:
                   NAME: rocep229s0
                   NODE_GUID: 0690:81ff:fe2c:77b0
                   NODE_TYPE: CA
                   SYS_IMAGE_GUID: 0690:81ff:fe2c:77b0
                   FW_VER: 1.110.1-a-1
                   PORT_0:
                       NETDEV: enp229s0
                       PORT_NUM: 1
                       STATE: DOWN
                       MAX_MTU: N/A
                       ACTIVE_MTU: N/A

From this output, use the ``NETDEV`` value (here, ``enp229s0``) as the name of
the NIC.

Sampling AI NIC
---------------

With AI NIC support enabled, you have to list the cards for which you want
to track the values. There are two ways this can be done:

> * by setting the configuration variable ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_AINICS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* By setting the configuration variable ``ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_AINICS``.
```

> * by passing in the command-line parameter --ai-nics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* By passing in the command-line parameter ``--ai-nics``.
```

> For example, if the host has one AI NIC named enp229s0, then you can track

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, if the host has one AI NIC named ``enp229s0``, then you can track
```

> its performance in the following ways, listed from the lowest to the highest

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
its performance in the following ways (in the order of lowest to highest priority):
```

> priority:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Text has been updated.

.. image:: ../data/rocprof-sys-perfetto-nic-trace.png
   :alt: Visualization of a performance graph in Perfetto with network tracks
   :width: 800

AI NIC profiling
================

On a host that has AI network interface cards, such as Pensando Broadcom Thor 2,
ROCm Systems Profiler can track the following values:

* RX Congestion Notification Packets
* TX Congestion Notification Packets
* RX unicast bytes
* TX unicast bytes
* RX unicast packets
* TX unicast packets

Building ROCm Systems Profiler with AI NIC support enabled
----------------------------------------------------------

By default, AI NIC support is disabled. You can enable it by setting

.. code-block:: shell

   -D ROCPROFSYS_USE_AINIC=ON

Sampling AI NIC
---------------

With AI NIC support enabled, you have to list the cards for which you want

> to track the values. There are two ways how this can be done:

Reviewer 2: Done.

* by setting the configuration variable ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_AINICS
* by passing in the command-line parameter --ai-nics

For example, if the host has one AI NIC named enp229s0, then you can track
its performance in the following ways, listed from the lowest to the highest
priority:

* set ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_AINICS=enp229s0 in the configuration file
* set ROCPROFSYS_SAMPLING_AINICS=enp229s0 in the environment
* pass --ai-nics=enp229s0 to rocprof-sys-sample

Suppose that we are using rocprof-sys-sample to profile AI NIC interface enp229s0
while running command `wget -O /dev/null --no-check-certificate https://example.com`.
Then the command can look like this:

.. code-block:: shell

   rocprof-sys-sample --ai-nics=enp229s0 --device -- wget -O /dev/null --no-check-certificate https://example.com

If you want to track multiple NICs on the host, you can provide them in a
comma-separated list, like this:

> .. code-block::shell

Reviewer 2: Done.

>    --ai-nics=enp229s0,enp229s1

Reviewer 2: Done.
